# v2.0.0-beta

::: warning

The versions below are **beta** versions. The mentioned endpoints are still subject
to change.

:::

## v2.0.0-beta.2 (2023-04-03)

### BREAKING CHANGES

This release includes a few breaking changes:

- Endpoints `/academicterms` and `/academicterms/{beginYear}/{endYear}` have been renamed to
  `/academic-terms` and `/academic-terms/{beginYear}/{endYear}`, respectively.
- In the `/courses/{executionCourse}/groups` endpoint, the `groups.shift` property is now an object instead of a string.
- In the `/courses/{executionCourse/evaluations` and `/student/evaluations` endpoints, the Spaces in the `rooms` field
  of the evaluations now have less information.

### New Endpoints

- `/spaces/search` - Search endpoints by their name
- `/spaces/{space}/blueprint/{format}` - Get blueprint of space
- `/competence-courses/{competenceCourse}` - Get a competence course by ID
- Various department-related endpoints:
  - `/departments` - List active departments
  - `/departments/all` - List all departments, past or active
  - `/departments/{department}` - Get a single department
  - `/departments/{department}/competence-courses` - Get competence courses of a department
  - `/departments/{department}/execution-courses` - Get execution courses of a department
  - `/departments/{department}/scientific-areas` - Get scientific areas of a department
- `/courses/{executionCourse}/announcements` - Get announcements of an execution course (just like the RSS feed)

### Changes

- The `building` and `campus` fields of Spaces are no longer shown if the space type is already a
  building or a campus, respectively.
- The teacher object in the `teachers` array in the `/courses/{executionCourse}` endpoint now shows whether
  the teacher is responsible for this execution course.
- The `/degrees/{degree}` endpoint now lists scientific comission members as well.

## v2.0.0-beta.1 (2023-02-07)

DSI is overhauling its public API with the release of its V2, Técnico API V2,
which is still in beta.

This new version of the API is a complete rewrite of the previous version, and is not
backwards compatible. Its full documentation details can be found in
the [OpenAPI schema](../../openapi/v2).

Compared to v1, the logic behind most endpoints has been kept the same, with the content itself being
changed to better reflect the data that is actually being used by the applications that
consume the API. The following are the most important changes:

### What's Changed

- The `?lang` query parameter no longer exists in any endpoint.
  The API now returns data in all available languages.
- The `/academicterms` endpoint has been split into both `/academicterms` and
  `/academicterms/{beginYear}/{endYear}`. The former fetches information about all
  academic terms (or starting from a given year), while the latter fetches information
  about a specific academic term. The academic terms themselves now also provide
  more granular information about the academic year and semesters.
- The `/degrees` endpoints have been updated, with two new endpoints being added:
  `/degrees/all` and `/degrees/{degree}/curriculum`, with `/degrees` itself now only
  fetching degrees from a given year. The curriculum endpoint exists in order to
  give more detailed information about all courses in a given degree - an extension
  of the still existing `/degrees/{degree}/courses` endpoint.
- The core `/courses` endpoints are the same (with respective contents being slightly
  altered to better reflect the data that is actually being used).
- The `/courses/{course}/schedule` endpoint now includes data about the classes of
  each shift.
- The `/spaces` endpoints have nearly doubled, with users being now able to fetch all campi,
  with `/spaces/campi`, and all buildings, with `/spaces/buildings`. It is also
  possible to fetch all occupations of a given space, in both a single day and an
  interval of days, with `/spaces/{space}/day/{day}` and
  `/spaces/{space}/interval/{startDay}/{endDay}`, respectively.
  Furthermore, dates/time are now represented in the ISO-8601 format, which
  correctly allows for events spanning multiple days.
- The only `/person/`-related endpoint is currently `/person` itself. V1 had endpoints
  such as `/person/calendar/classes` and `/person/calendar/evaluations`, among others,
  which are now held both in the `/student/` and `/teacher/` endpoints (more detailed
  information about such endpoints can be found in the documentation).
- New and more granular scopes have been created, where read and write scopes
  can now be granted separately. V2 scopes are not the same as V1 and you will
  need to update your application scopes to use protected V2 endpoints.

### What's Missing

Since this is the first beta, there are still missing endpoints from v2.
Here is a list of all the endpoints that have not been ported over:

- `/canteen`
- `/contacts`
- `/domainModel`
- `/parking`
- `/person/payments`
- `/shuttle`
- ~~`/spaces/{id}/blueprint`~~ Added in v2.0.0-beta.2
